The samskivert library
----------------------

The samskivert library (SL) aims to provide useful reusable Java routines
that do things for which I've been unable to find useful reusable
implementations on the net.

Given the emphasis on reusability, SL attempts to closely adhere to the
following principles:

* Each individual module should depend as little as possible on other SL
  modules. Obvious exceptions include modules that are a logical extension
  of other modules and modules that clearly require a service that is
  implemented by another SL module and would have to implement that
  service themselves in the absence of dependence on the other module.

* Modules should be both simple to use and as general purpose as possible.
  To meet these two competing requirements, a balance must be struck at
  that sweet spot where reusability is maximized.

* Code included in SL will freely depend on JDK packages available in the
  Java 2 platform and beyond. SL is initially a repository of software
  useful for server-side or stand alone applications and therefore need
  not compromise because it needs to function in the JVMs of commonly
  available web browsers.

* We are not here to reinvent the wheel, nor to provide a uniform
  interface to every software service under the sun. If something is
  available in a freely redistributable and reusable form from someone
  else, it won't be found in SL. If SL depends on such software from
  another source, it will provide clear documentation on how to get that
  software and make use of it within the scope of SL's particular needs.
  Again a balance of reusability will be struck here and software that is
  sufficiently difficult to make usable in an arbitrary environment will
  not be used by SL and may be "reinvented".

Distribution
------------

The samskivert library is released under the LGPL.

Contribution
------------

Contributions to SL are welcome. Control of the CVS repository is
presently in the hands of mdb@samskivert.com and submissions will be
reviewed prior to inclusion. Facilities for management of major
contributions by external parties (ie. publicly accessible CVS server)
will be provided if circumstances dictate.

Contact Information
-------------------

The person primarily responsible for SL is Michael Bayne and can be
contacted at <mdb@samskivert.com>.
